We've been playing around with pods and deployments for quite a while, and at this point in time,
if we do a little get pods, we'll see that we still have one pod running from our deployment.
So in theory, this thing right here, this pod inside of it is running a container.
And inside that container is our post application.
So at this point, a quick question for you.
How do we actually make a request to that application somewhere hidden in all these crazy layers is
our original node server.
How do we actually make use of that thing?
Well, that's what we're going to figure out in this video.
So we're going to be discussing services.
Remember, a service is another kind of object in Kubernetes.
It's an object very similar to how a pod is an object or a deployment is an object.
We create services using config files just as we do pods and deployments.
We are going to make use of services to set up some communication between all of our different pods
or to get access to a pod from the outside of our cluster.
So any time we need to have some communication or networking between our pods, which is the case with
our event bus, trying to send events over to our post images or the post pods, or any time that we
need to somehow access a pod from outside of the cluster, we are always going to be making use of a
service.
So any time we think of networking or communication in any way, shape or form, we are always thinking
about services.
Just about every single pod that we ever create we're going to want to communicate with in some fashion.
So just about every pod or every deployment we create is always going to have some kind of matching
service along with it.
Behind the scenes, there are actually several different kinds of services.
So let's go over these different types really quickly.
There are four different types of services that we need to be aware of, but effectively there's only
two.
Cluster IP and load balancer that we're going to be using on a very daily basis.
Cluster IP services are used any time that we want to set up communication between different pods inside
of our cluster.
No ports are used anytime you want to access a pod from outside of our cluster, but we only usually
only use a node port for development purposes.
Load balancers are the right way to access a pod from outside the cluster.
So you can think of a node port and load balancer as being very similar, but the way that they actually
work are very different.
And I'll be sure to tell you exactly how they're different over time.
So Node port and load balancer are both going to expose a port to the outside world or to expose a pod
to the outside world.
And then finally, external name services.
I only put it in this diagram so that you are aware that this exists and it is another type of service,
but it's not something that we are going to use.
It's a very advanced, very kind of corner case thing that we're not really going to worry about.
So a quick question for you.
Out of these three different types of services.
What would be the most appropriate type of service to use if we want to set up some kind of communication
between these different pods?
Well, in this case, we are trying to set up communication between pods inside of a cluster.
So that would be most appropriate for a cluster IP type service because it only exposes pods to other
pods inside the cluster.
So we would want this right here to be a cluster IP service.
How about the other scenario?
Scenario in which we want to access a pod from the outside world, like maybe a browser running on our
computer or a browser running on some user's machine.
In this scenario, we are trying to access a pod from the outside world so we could use either a node
port or a load balancer.
If we are in a development environment and we just want to do one little quick one off test or something
like that, we would use a node port, but in just about every other scenario we are going to use a
load balancer type service.
So in this case, we would make this either a load balancer.
And I'll say sorry about that.
I'll say on here at the very end, or possibly a node port.
So those are some of the different types of services that we're going to make use of.
Again, we're going to be mostly focused on cluster IP and load balancer, but we will sometimes make
use of node port.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
We're going to come back to the next video and we're going to start to create our first service.